---
title: "Beautiful Typography and the Job Hunt"
date: 2018-02-08
categories: design
layout: post
---

So it's finally time for me to start getting my things in order. It's time to go job-hunting, intern-seeking, and experience-venturing. And that means... updating my résumé. My resume was a dingy old basic Microsoft Word document with custom indent spacing and tables in order to make everything look all nice and neat. But if you were web-developing in the early 2000s, you know that tables were the ugliest most hack-y way to structure a website by far. It wasn't that bad back then, but looking at the advent of the CSS Grid and Flexbox and a swarm of other new technologies aimed at making your website's layout easy to manage and responsive, I'm glad tables are long gone.

But I digress. So I'm looking at my design and just thinking to myself how can I, in good conscience, knowing I could design something way better, submit this old ugly piece-of-crap résumé. And then I was too lazy to design my own. (Actually, there were a couple iterations designed to match this website to create a feeling of cohesiveness... but I didn't want to maintain that. Us programmers are laaaazy.)

So I looked around the internet to see what better options there were. Usually I just type "reddit" after whatever I'm searching and that curates the content quite nicely. On one of the jobs subreddit I found a bundle of very nice Adobe InDesign templates that I could edit and use, and so I did. Mind you, these templates were quite modern in comparison, perhaps too much so. My current résumé keeps a kind of traditional elegance that I believe works nicely with it.

Anyway, I still wasn't happy with the InDesign templates nor was I happy in having to open InDesign and edit everything from the spacing of each bullet point to the header. So I kept looking around and I found... LaTeX! Now I like to think I've at least heard of most things of popularity/use on the internet, and I did know about LaTeX for a long while, but I never even downloaded it (and for good reason too because good lord if you didn't know what you were doing, like me, you would have ended up downloading some huge piece of software with 99% extra components you wouldn't need).

After downloading it I... one-two-skip-a-few-steps finally had it installed and working with everything I needed.